The next layer of abstraction will address the issues that the current layer is having. Kubernetess is great but there is a steep learning curve and the security needs to be improved among other things. Docker Swarm is easier to use and lightweight but it doesn’t have as much functionality as Kubernetes. Maybe it’ll be a way to orchestrate the orchestration or make things more autonomous. Whatever the case, it’ll be easier to use, more robust and definitely have tighter security. 

Web apps will be deployed and managed on platforms built off of Kubernetes. The way of thinking on the deployment will be different because I feel that web apps are steering towards a more VR aspect. Web apps that you can be a part of instead of just using. This will create an abundance of platforms to facilitate the needs of making this possible. No/low code platforms to accelerate the development cycle. 


I believe that container management systems will still be around, but probably to a lesser degree. There will always be something new to improve on what we have. Everything was built on Linux till a few abstractions moved it down the stack. Linux is still relevant but not as much as it was. Same fate awaits Kubernetes. With the speed that technology moves, the next layer of abstraction could hit in the next 2-5 years. Kubernetes still has room for improvement but there are already disadvantages to it that lead developers to alternatives. Alternatives that can easily over take it given the right support and public appeal. It’s a platform to build platforms. The next big thing is closer than we think.